# Bikestore-Sales-Analysis
Data was downloaded from kaggle checked for any errors and inconcistencies before being imported into MySQL.
Went through every table to undestand the fields and records and note down the insights we can generate from the data.
#HERE ARE THE INSIGHTS GENERATED
1. Total revenue generated is $7,689,116.56.
2. Getting the revenue generated per year to identify the sales trend and store performance over the years. RESULT: Year 2017 brought in the most revenue, 2016 followed suit with 2018 having the least revenue. 2018 made $1,632,678.45 less compared to 2017
3. Identifying which months sales peak to help schedule for marketing campaigns and ensure adequate stock levels due to influx of customers in those certain months. From the results it is noted that the months of April and January are the busiest.
4. Store performance analysis. To identify stores that brings in the most revenue and those that bring in the least. This helps in noting where to invest i.e store expansion, staffing and where support is needed to boost sales. There are three stores namely: Boldwin Bikes, Santa Cruz Bikes and Rowlett Bikes. Boldwin had the highest revenue generated $5,215,751.28 followed by Santa Cruz Bikes and lastly Rowlett Bikes. Boldwin Bikes made $4.3M more revenue than Rowlett Bikes.
5. Product performance analysis. Identifying the best selling products, best selling brands and product categories. This helps in inventory planning and forecasting future demands. e.g having high stock levels for fast moving brands like Electra, Trek and Surly.
From the analysis it is noted that the best selling categories won't necessarily be the ones that bring in the most revenue as items in some categories cost 5 times higher. I.e the results show that Cruiser, mountain and children bikes have the highest number of customers while Electric, Cydocross and Road have the least. However, on revenue generation road bikes are part of the top 3 while children bikes are part of the bottom 3. This is because road bikes cost way more than children bikes hence despite few sales they bring in more money. Therby, it is paramount to ensure high stock levels for children bikes as they are part of those ordered the most while also ensuring great marketing strategies for road bikes as they bring in high revenue.
6. Revenue impact of discounts. Help identify if discounts lead to increased revenue or do they reduce profitability. It was noted that high discounts did not result in huge sales thereby they ought to be discontinued as they reduce profitability. 
7. Checking invetory levels to ensure popular products do not go out of stock to avoid missed sales. This helps in restocking and inventoty planning.
8. Lifetime value calculation. Identifying highest spending customers for VIP programs. RESULTS: Sharyn Hopkins, Pamela Newman and Abby Gamble spend alot of money in the stores thereby, having tailored services for them ensures they keep coming back.
9. Employee perfromance analysis. Identifying the best performing employees that bring in the most sale. Once identifyied they can be rewarded to show appreciation and to motivate them to keep up the good work. This also helps take note of underperforming employees for additional training to help boost their performance. RESULT: Mercelene Boyer and Venila Daniel should get incentives or bonuses for their good work while Lyla Tarell and Kali Vargas should undergo extra training to boost their confidence in sales.
10. Checking the math on returning vs new customers to identify customer loyalty and improve retention strategies. Helps in customer segmentation for targeted campaigns and loyalty programs. Discounts and promotions can be offered to encourage repeat purchases. There are 1314 new customers and 131 repeat customers. A first purchase discount can be offerd to first time clients to encourage repeat purchases and, complimentary services can be offered to the 131 loyal customers to show appreciation.
11. Customer location insights. Identifyies which city or state brings in the most revenue for either expansion planning or targeted promotions. Results: Mount Vermon NY, Balliston Spa NY and San Angelo TX have the highest number of customers hence having tailored marketing strategies for them is ideal.
 
